Task Description Document 
Background: 
The Great Lakes are home to a multibillion-dollar shipping industry which moves 130 million tons of iron ore, cement, steel, grain, sugar, etc each year. Every winter, this industry must navigate challenges related to ice cover on the lakes. The USCG must allocate its nine (9) ice-breaking assets efficiently to ensure commerce is minimally affected by ice cover. USCG assets include one (1) heavy icebreaker (the USCGC Mackinaw); six (6) harbor tugs, and two (2) buoy tenders that can be used in thin ice. To position its assets and support commercial shipping lanes, the USCG partners with the US National Ice Center (USNIC) which produces daily ice charts and predictions of ice development and decay primarily using Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) satellite data. SAR is the preferred satellite data because it is cloud-penetrating and can observe ice cover day and night. SAR use in the Great Lakes region is limited, however, in that the data is not available on demand due to the reliance on foreign satellites. There are also currently no remote sensing capabilities employed to provide ice thickness and ice characterization data that would add considerable value to ice breaking mission planning. 
Problem Statement: 
You are the USNIC liaison to the USCG detachment for the Great Lakes and have been asked by the USCG Commander for your predictions for ice cover for the next 3 days. You will use satellite-based ice chart information from the USNIC for the preceding three weeks (data will be formatted as JPG graphics, geo-referenced netCDFs, and shapefiles.); weather forecast data including surface air temperature and winds; and information on primary shipping routes. 
Based on these inputs, you will produce: 
1. an ice forecast that shows the spatial field of ice on each of the 4 days (today +3) and includes a narrative description for each 
(file format? JPGs okay?) 
2. a narrative and supporting documentation that shows how you solved the problem and what inputs or models you used in determining #1 
Possible solutions include: 
● machine-learning algorithms 
● linear regression 
● logical reasoning and explanation 
Evaluation Criteria: 
Submissions will be evaluated based on the accuracy of the predictions, the quality of the report, and any improvements made to the current products from USNIC. There is no limitation on the technology you use or creativity you employ. The following list is not prescriptive, but teams may consider the following: 
● improvements to the visualization of ice data 
● improved ice thickness measurement and predictions using remote sensing technologies ● more robust identification of ice concentrations 
● detection of moving (pack) ice vs. fast ice (ice attached to the shore or lake floor) ● ability to have on-demand access to specific, localized image sets (vs. the whole image) at better resolutions and higher-frequency refresh rates 
● classifying the state of the ice – new ice, melting, thin, thick 
● improved characterization of ice under pressure, ice roughness, and resolution of ambiguous ice signatures in true color imagery (e.g., clear ice vs. snow-covered ice).